{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\\documentclass [11pt, twoside] \{uwthesis\}[2012/06/19]\par
 \par
%\par
% The following line would print the thesis in a postscript font \par
\par
% \\usepackage\{natbib\}\par
% \\def\\bibpreamble\{\\protect\\addcontentsline\{toc\}\{chapter\}\{Bibliography\}\}\par
\par
\\setcounter\{tocdepth\}\{1\}  % Print the chapter and sections to the toc\par
 \par
\par
% ==========   Local defs and mods\par
%\par
\par
% --- sample stuff only -----\par
% These format the sample code in this document\par
\par
\\usepackage\{alltt\}  % \par
\\newenvironment\{demo\}\par
  \{\\begin\{alltt\}\\leftskip3em\par
     \\def\\\\\{\\ttfamily\\char`\\\\\}%\par
     \\def\\\{\{\\ttfamily\\char`\\\{\}%\par
     \\def\\\}\{\\ttfamily\\char`\\\}\}\}\par
  \{\\end\{alltt\}\}\par
 \par
% metafont font.  If logo not available, use the second form\par
%\par
% \\font\\mffont=logosl10 scaled\\magstep1\par
\\let\\mffont=\\sf\par
% --- end-of-sample-stuff ---\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\\begin\{document\}\par
 \par
% ==========   Preliminary pages\par
%\par
% ( revised 2012 for electronic submission )\par
%\par
\par
\\prelimpages\par
 \par
%\par
% ----- copyright and title pages\par
%\par
\\Title\{The Suitability of the \\LaTeX\\ Text Formatter\\\\\par
  for Thesis Preparation by Technical and\\\\\par
  Non-technical Degree Candidates\}\par
\\Author\{Jim Fox\}\par
\\Year\{2012\}\par
\\Program\{UW Information Technology\}\par
\par
\\Chair\{Name of Chairperson\}\{Title of Chair\}\{Department of Chair\}\par
\\Signature\{First committee member\}\par
\\Signature\{Next committee member\}\par
\\Signature\{etc\}\par
\par
\\copyrightpage\par
\par
% \\titlepage  \par
\par
% --- sample stuff only -----\par
% unusual footnote not found in a real thesis\par
% You just use the \\titlepage as commented out above\par
\par
\{\\Degreetext\{A dissertation%\par
  \\footnote[2]\{an egocentric imitation, actually\}\\\\\par
  submitted in partial fulfillment of the\\\\ requirements for the degree of\}\par
 \\def\\thefootnote\{\\fnsymbol\{footnote\}\}\par
 \\let\\footnoterule\\relax\par
 \\titlepage\par
 \}\par
\\setcounter\{footnote\}\{0\}\par
\par
% --- end-of-sample-stuff ---\par
 \par
%\par
% ----- signature and quoteslip are gone\par
%\par
\par
%\par
% ----- abstract\par
%\par
\par
\par
\\setcounter\{page\}\{-1\}\par
\\abstract\{%\par
This sample dissertation is an aid to students who are attempting\par
to format their theses with \\LaTeX, a sophisticated\par
text formatter widely available at the University of Washington\par
and other institutions of higher learning.\par
 \par
\\begin\{itemize\}\par
\\item It describes the use of a specialized\par
macro package developed specifically for thesis production\par
at the University.\par
The macros customize \\LaTeX\\ for the correct thesis style,\par
allowing the student to concentrate on the substance of\par
his or her text.%\par
\\footnote\{See Appendix A to obtain the source to this\par
 thesis and the style file.\}\par
\\item It demonstrates the solutions to a variety of\par
formatting challenges found in thesis production.\par
\\item It serves as a template for a real dissertation.\par
\\end\{itemize\}\par
\}\par
 \par
%\par
% ----- contents & etc.\par
%\par
\\tableofcontents\par
\\listoffigures\par
%\\listoftables  % I have no tables\par
 \par
%\par
% ----- glossary \par
%\par
\\chapter*\{Glossary\}      % starred form omits the `chapter x'\par
\\addcontentsline\{toc\}\{chapter\}\{Glossary\}\par
\\thispagestyle\{plain\}\par
%\par
\\begin\{glossary\}\par
\\item[argument] replacement text which customizes a \\LaTeX\\ macro for\par
each particular usage.\par
\\item[back-up] a copy of a file to be used when catastrophe strikes\par
the original.  People who make no back-ups deserve\par
no sympathy.\par
\\item[control sequence] the normal form of a command to \\LaTeX.\par
\\item[delimiter] something, often a character, that indicates\par
the beginning and ending of an argument.\par
More generally, a delimiter is a field separator.\par
\\item[document class] a file of macros that tailors \\LaTeX\\ for\par
a particular document.  The macros described by this thesis\par
constitute a document class.\par
\\item[document option] a macro or file of macros\par
that further modifies \\LaTeX\\ for\par
a particular document.  The option \{\\tt[chapternotes]\}\par
constitutes a document option.\par
\\item[figure] illustrated material, including graphs,\par
diagrams, drawings and photographs.\par
\\item[font] a character set (the alphabet plus digits\par
and special symbols) of a particular size and style.  A couple of fonts\par
used in this thesis are twelve point roman and \{\\sl twelve point roman\par
slanted\}.\par
\\item[footnote] a note placed at the bottom of a page, end of a chapter,\par
or end of a thesis that comments on or cites a reference\par
for a designated part of the text.\par
\\item[formatter] (as opposed to a word-processor) arranges printed\par
material according to instructions embedded in the text.\par
A word-processor, on the other hand, is normally controlled\par
by keyboard strokes that move text about on a display.\par
\\item[\\LaTeX] simply the ultimate in computerized typesetting.\par
\\item[macro]  a complex control sequence composed of \par
other control sequences.\par
\\item[pica] an archaic unit of length.  One pica is twelve points and\par
six picas is about an inch.\par
\\item[point] a unit of length.  72.27 points equals one inch.\par
\\item[roman]  a conventional printing typestyle using serifs.\par
the decorations on the ends of letter strokes.\par
This thesis is set in roman type.\par
\\item[rule] a straight printed line; e.g., \\hrulefill.\par
\\item[serif] the decoration at the ends of letter strokes.\par
\\item[table] information placed in a columnar arrangement.\par
\\item[thesis] either a master's thesis or a doctoral dissertation.\par
This document also refers to itself as a thesis, although it\par
really is not one.\par
 \par
\\end\{glossary\}\par
 \par
%\par
% ----- acknowledgments\par
%\par
\\acknowledgments\{% \\vskip2pc\par
  % \{\\narrower\\noindent\par
  The author wishes to express sincere appreciation to\par
  University of Washington, where he has had the opportunity\par
  to work with the \\TeX\\ formatting system,\par
  and to the author of \\TeX, Donald Knuth, \{\\it il miglior fabbro\}.\par
  % \\par\}\par
\}\par
\par
%\par
% ----- dedication\par
%\par
\\dedication\{\\begin\{center\}to my dear wife, Joanna\\end\{center\}\}\par
\par
%\par
% end of the preliminary pages\par
 \par
 \par
 \par
%\par
% ==========      Text pages\par
%\par
\par
\\textpages\par
 \par
% ========== Chapter 1\par
 \par
\\chapter \{Introduction\}\par
 \par
The utility of a clean, professionally prepared thesis is well\par
documented%\par
\\footnote\{See, for example,\par
  W.~Shakespeare\\cite\{Hamlet\} for a recent discussion.\}\par
but, until recently, a degree candidate had no recourse but\par
to submit his or her thesis to a typist for completion.\par
Revisions were difficult and time consuming, and even at its best the\par
resultant thesis still looked typed.\par
The advent of computerized typesetting has revolutionized\par
thesis preparation, and \\TeX\\ in particular brings to the\par
university student the power and flexibility of an\par
`industrial-strength' typesetter.\par
 \par
 \par
\\TeX\\ is a flexible,\par
complete, and professional typesetting system.\par
It has been programmed to produce\par
the same document on all machines, so\par
a suitable printer can always be found for the final copy\par
while drafts are made on more conventional and inexpensive printers.\par
The `suitable' standard is a 300 dot-per-inch laser printer,\par
which is excellent for thesis production.  Many such laser printers\par
are available about the campus.\par
 \par
\\section\{The Purpose of This Sample Thesis\}\par
 \par
This sample is both a demonstration of the quality and\par
propriety of a \\LaTeX\\footnote\{We mean the \\LaTeXe\\ version\par
of \\LaTeX.  Earlier versions, now called \\LaTeX2.10 were much\par
different.\} formatted thesis, and is \par
documentation for the preparation of a thesis.\par
It has made extensive use of a custom class file\par
developed specifically for this purpose\par
at the University of Washington.  Chapter~II discusses\par
\\TeX\\ and \\LaTeX.\par
Chapter III describes the additional macros and functions\par
provided by the custom thesis class file.  Finally, Chapter IV discusses\par
some special problems due to the inherent differences among the various\par
computers and printers that support \\LaTeX.\par
 \par
It is \par
impossible to predict all the formatting problems one will encounter\par
and there will be problems that are best handled\par
by a specialist.  \par
The Graduate School may be able to help you find help.\par
Some departments may also be able to provide \\LaTeX\\ assistance.\par
 \par
 \par
\\section\{Conventions and Notations\}\par
 \par
In this thesis the typist\par
refers to the user of \\LaTeX---the one who\par
makes formatting decisions and chooses the appropriate\par
formatting commands.\par
He or she will most often be the degree candidate.\par
 \par
This document deals with \\LaTeX\\ typesetting commands and their\par
functions.  Wherever possible the conventions used to display\par
text entered by the typist and the resulting formatted output\par
are the same as those used by the \\TeX books.\par
Therefore, \{\\tt typewriter type\} is used to indicate text\par
as typed by the computer\par
or entered by the typist.\par
It is quite the opposite of \{\\it italics,\} which indicates\par
a category rather than exact text.  For example,\par
\{\\tt alpha\} and \{\\tt beta\} might each be an example of a \{\\it label\}.\par
 \par
 \par
\\section\{Nota bene\}\par
 \par
This sample thesis was produced by the \\LaTeX\\ document class it describes\par
and its format is consonant with the Graduate School's electronic dissertation guidelines%\par
\\cite\{SP\}.\par
However, use of this package does not guarantee acceptability\par
of a particular thesis.\par
 \par
 \par
% ========== Chapter 2\par
 \par
\\chapter\{A Brief \\\\ Description of \\protect\\TeX\}\par
 \par
The \\TeX\\ formatting program is the creation of\par
Donald Knuth of Stanford University.\par
It has been implemented on nearly every general purpose computer and\par
produces exactly\\footnote\{``Exactly'' specifically excludes the\par
  inherent variety in print devices.\}\par
the same copy on all machines.\par
 \par
\\section\{What is it; why is it spelled that way; \par
and what do\par
really long section titles look like in the text and in the\par
Table of Contents?\}\par
 \par
\\TeX\\ is a formatter.  A document's format is controlled\par
by commands embedded in the text.\par
% The peculiar look to the names indicate that \\TeX\\ is also\par
% a typesetting program.  Each character and rule on the page\par
% is precisely positioned.\par
\\LaTeX\\ is a special version of \\TeX---preloaded\par
with a voluminous set of macros that simplify most\par
formatting tasks.\par
 \par
\\TeX\\ uses \{\\it control sequences\} to control\par
the formatting of a document.  These control sequences are usually\par
words or groups of letters prefaced with the backslash character\par
(\{\\tt\\char'134\}).\par
For example,\par
Figure \\ref\{start-2\} shows the text that printed the beginning\par
of this chapter.  Note the control sequence \\verb"\\chapter" that\par
instructed \\TeX\\ to start a new chapter, print the title, and\par
make an entry in the table of contents.  It is an example\par
of a macro defined by the \\LaTeX\\ macro package.\par
The control sequence \\verb"\\TeX", which prints the word \\TeX,\par
is a standard macro from the \{\\it\\TeX book\}.\par
The short control sequence \\verb"\\\\" in the title instructed \\TeX\\ to\par
break the title line at that point.\par
This capability is an example of an extension to \\LaTeX\\\par
provided by the uwthesis document class.\par
 \par
\\begin\{figure\}\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\chapter\\\\\{A"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\chapter\\\{A\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  Brief\\\\\\\\Description of \\\\TeX\\\}\par
\par
The {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\TeX\\\\\\\\"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\TeX\\\\\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  formatting program is the creation of\par
Donald Knuth of Stanford University.\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
\\label\{start-2\}\par
\\caption\{The beginning of the Chapter II text\}\par
\\end\{figure\}\par
 \par
Most of the time \\TeX\\ is simply building paragraphs from\par
text in your source files.  No control sequences are involved.\par
New paragraphs are indicated by a blank line in the\par
input file.\par
Hyphenation is performed automatically.\par
 \par
\\section\{\\TeX books\}\par
 \par
The primary reference for \\LaTeX\\ is Lamport's second edition\par
of the \\textit\{\\LaTeX\\ User's Guide\}\\cite\{Lbook\}.\par
It is easily read and should be sufficient for thesis formatting.\par
See also the \\textsl\{\\LaTeX\\ Companion\}\\cite\{companion\} for descriptions\par
of many add-on macro packages.\par
\par
Although unnecessary for thesis writers, the \\textsl\{\\TeX book\}\par
is the primary reference for \\TeX sperts worldwide.\par
 \par
\\section\{Mathematics\}\par
 \par
The thesis class does not expand on \\TeX's\par
or \\LaTeX's\par
comprehensive treatment of mathematical equation printing.%\par
\\label\{c2note\}\\footnote\{%\par
% a long footnote indeed.\par
 Although many \\TeX-formatted documents contain no\par
 mathematics except the page numbers, it seems appropriate\par
 that this paper, which is in some sense about \\TeX,\par
 ought to demonstrate an equation or two.  Here then, is a statement \par
 of the \{\\it Nonsense Theorem\}.\par
 \par
 \\smallskip\par
 \\def\\RR\{\{\\cal R\\kern-.15em R\}\}\par
 \{\\narrower\\hangindent\\parindent Assume a universe $E$ and a symmetric function\par
  $\\$$ defined on $E$, such that for each $\\$^\{yy\}$ there exists a\par
  $\\$^\{\\overline\{yy\}\}$, where $\\$^\{yy\} = \\$^\{\\overline\{yy\}\}$.\par
  For each element $i$ of $E$ define\par
  $\{\\cal S\}(i)=\\sum_i \\$^\{yy\}+\\$^\{\\overline\{yy\}\}+0$.\par
  Then if $\\RR$ is that subset of $E$ where $1+1=3$,\par
  for each $i$\par
  $$\\lim_\{\\$\\to\\infty\}\\int \{\\cal S\}di =\par
      \\cases\{0,&if $i\\not\\in\\RR$;\\cr\par
             \\infty,&if $i\\in\\RR$.\\cr\}$$\par
  \\par\}\} % end of the footnote\par
%\par
The \{\\it\\TeX book\}\\cite\{book\}, \{\\it \\LaTeX\\ User's Guide\}\\cite\{Lbook\},\par
and \{\\it The \\LaTeX\\ Companion\}\\cite\{companion\}\par
thoroughly cover this topic.\par
 \par
 \par
\\section\{Languages other than English\}\par
 \par
Most \\LaTeX\\ implementations at the University are tailored\par
for the English language.  However, \\LaTeX\\ will format many\par
other languages. \par
Consult your department or contact the\par
Center for Advanced Research Technology in the Arts and Humanities (CARTAH),\par
\\smallskip\par
\\begin\{center\}\par
\{\\tt cartha@u.washington.edu\},\par
\\end\{center\}\par
\\smallskip\par
for assistance with non-English formatting.\par
\par
Unusual characters can be defined via the\par
font maker \\hbox\{\\mffont METAFONT\} (documented by Knuth\\cite\{Metafont\}).\par
The definitions are not trivial.\par
Students who attempt to print a thesis with\par
custom fonts may soon proclaim,\par
 \par
% note.  This is not the correct way to print Greek\par
\\medskip\par
\\begin\{center\}\par
``$\\mathaccent"7027\\alpha\\pi o\\kern1pt\\theta\\alpha\\nu\\epsilon\\hat\\iota\\nu$\par
\\ $\\theta\\acute\\epsilon\\lambda\\omega$.''\par
 \par
\\end\{center\}\par
 \par
% ========== Chapter 3\par
 \par
\\chapter\{The Thesis Unformatted\}\par
 \par
This chapter describes the uwthesis class (\\texttt\{uwthesis.cls\},\par
version dated 2011/06/27)\par
in detail \par
and shows how it was used to format the thesis.\par
A working knowledge of Lamport's \\LaTeX\\ manual\\cite\{Lbook\} is assumed.\par
 \par
\\section\{The Control File\}\par
 \par
The source to this sample thesis is contained in a single file\par
only because ease of distribution was a concern.\par
You should not do this.  Your task will be much easier if you\par
break your thesis into several files:  a file for the preliminary pages,\par
a file for each chapter,  one for the glossary, and one for each\par
appendix.  Then use a control file to tie them all together.\par
This way you can edit and format parts of your thesis much more\par
efficiently.\par
 \par
Figure~\\ref\{control-file\} shows a control file that\par
might have produced this thesis.\par
It sets the document style, with options and parameters,\par
and formats the various parts of the thesis---%\par
but contains no text of its own.\par
 \par
 \par
%  control file caption and figure\par
%\par
\\begin\{figure\}[p]\par
 \\begin\{leftfullpage\}\par
  \\caption[A thesis control file]%\par
   \{\\narrower A thesis control file (\{\\tt thesis.tex\}).\par
   This file is the input to \\LaTeX\\ that will produce a\par
   thesis.  It contains no text, only commands which\par
   direct the formatting of the thesis.\par
   This is also an example of a `facing page' caption.  It is guaranteed\par
   to appear on a lefthand page, facing the figure contents on the right.\par
   See the text.\}\par
  \\label\{control-file\}\par
 \\end\{leftfullpage\}\par
\\end\{figure\}\par
%\par
\\begin\{figure\}[p]\par
%\par
 \\begin\{fullpage\}\par
  \\footnotesize\par
  \\begin\{verbatim\}\par
    % LaTeX thesis control file\par
 \par
    \\documentclass[11pt,twoside]\{uwthesis\}\par
 \par
    \\begin\{document\}\par
 \par
    % preliminary pages\par
    %\par
    \\prelimpages\par
    \\include\{prelim\}\par
 \par
    % text pages\par
    %\par
    \\textpages\par
    \\include\{chap1\}\par
    \\include\{chap2\}\par
    \\include\{chap3\}\par
    \\include\{chap4\}\par
 \par
    % bibliography\par
    %\par
    \\bibliographystyle\{plain\}\par
    \\bibliography\{thesis\}\par
 \par
    % appendices\par
    %\par
    \\appendix\par
    \\include\{appxa\}\par
    \\include\{appxb\}\par
 \par
    \\include\{vita\} \par
    \\end\{document\}\par
  \\end\{verbatim\}\par
 \\end\{fullpage\}\par
\\end\{figure\}\par
 \par
The first section, from the \\verb"\\documentclass" to\par
the \\verb"\\begin\\\{document\\\}", defines the document class and options.\par
This thesis has specified two-sided formatting, which is now\par
allowed by the Graduate School.  Two sided printing is now\par
actually \\LaTeX's default.  If you want one sided printing\par
you must specify \\verb"oneside".\par
This sample also specified a font size\par
of 11 points. \par
Possible font size options are: \\verb"10pt", \\verb"11pt", and \\verb"12pt".\par
Default is 12 points, which is the preference\par
of the Graduate School. If you choose a smaller size be sure to\par
check with the Graduate School for acceptability.  The smaller fonts\par
can produce very small sub and superscripts.\par
\par
Include most additional formatting packages with \\verb"\\usepackage",\par
as describe by Lamport\\cite\{Lbook\}.  The one exception to this\par
rule is the \\verb"natbib" package.  Include it with the \\verb"natbib"\par
document option.\par
 \par
Use the \\verb"\\includeonly" command to format only a part of your\par
thesis.  See Lamport\\cite[sec. 4.4]\{Lbook\} for usage and limitations.\par
\par
 \par
\\section\{The Text Pages\}\par
 \par
A chapter is a major division of the thesis.  Each chapter begins\par
on a new page and has a Table of Contents entry.\par
 \par
\\subsection\{Chapters, Sections, Subsections, and Appendices\}\par
 \par
 \par
Within the chapter title use a \\verb"\\\\" control sequence to separate lines\par
in the printed title (recall Figure \\ref\{start-2\}.).\par
The \\verb"\\\\" does not affect the Table of Contents entry.\par
 \par
Format appendices just like chapters.\par
The control sequence \\verb"\\appendix" instructs \\LaTeX\\ to\par
begin using the term `Appendix' rather than `Chapter'.\par
 \par
 \par
Sections and subsections of a chapter are specified\par
by  \\verb"\\section" and \\verb"\\subsection", respectively.\par
In this thesis chapter and section\par
titles are written to the table of contents.\par
Consult Lamport\\cite[pg. 176]\{Lbook\} to see which\par
subdivisions of the thesis can be written to the table of contents.\par
The \\verb"\\\\" control sequence is not permitted in section and\par
subsection titles.\par
 \par
 \par
\\subsection\{Footnotes\}\par
 \par
\\label\{footnotes\}\par
 Footnotes format as described in the \\LaTeX\\ book.  You can also\par
 ask for end-of-chapter or end-of-thesis notes.\par
 The thesis class will automatically set these up if\par
 you ask for the document class option \\texttt\{chapternotes\}\par
 or \\texttt\{endnotes\}.  \par
 \par
If selected, chapternotes will print automatically.  If you choose\par
endnotes however you must explicitly indicate when to print the notes \par
with the command \\verb"\\printendnotes".  See the style guide for\par
suitable endnote placement.  \par
\par
\\subsection\{Figures and Tables\}\par
Standard \\LaTeX\\ figures and tables, see Lamport\\cite[sec.~C.9]\{Lbook\},\par
normally provide the most convenient means to position the figure.\par
Full page floats and facing captions are exceptions to this rule.\par
\par
If you want a figure or table to occupy a full page enclose the\par
contents in a \\texttt\{fullpage\} environment.  \par
See figures~\\ref\{facing-caption\}.\par
\par
Facing page captions are described\par
in the Style Manual\\cite\{SP\}.  They have different meanings\par
depending on whether you are using\par
the one-side or two-side thesis style.\par
\par
\par
If you are using the two-side style,\par
facing captions\par
are full page captions for full page figures or tables\par
and must face the illustration to which they refer.\par
You must explicitly format both pages. \par
The caption part must appear on an even page\par
(left side) and the figure or table must\par
come on the following odd page (right side).\par
Enclose the float contents for the caption \par
in a \\texttt\{leftfullpage\} environment,\par
and enclose the float contents for the figure or table \par
in a \\texttt\{fullpage\} environment.\par
Figure~\\ref\{control-file\}, for example,\par
required a full page so its caption (on a facing caption page)\par
would have been formatted as shown in figure~\\ref\{facing-caption\}a.\par
The first page (left side) contains the caption. The second page\par
(right side) could be left blank.  A picture or graph might be pasted onto\par
this space.\par
\par
\par
\\begin\{figure\}[t]\par
\\footnotesize\par
\\begin\{verbatim\}\par
     \\begin\{figure\}[p]% the left side caption\par
       \\begin\{leftfullpage\}\par
         \\caption\{ . . . \}\par
       \\end\{leftfullpage\}\par
     \\end\{figure\}\par
     \\begin\{figure\}[p]% the right side space\par
       \\begin\{fullpage\}\par
          . . .\par
          ( note.. no caption here )\par
       \\end\{fullpage\}\par
     \\end\{figure\}\par
\\end\{verbatim\}\par
\\caption(a)\{This text would create a\par
  double page figure in the two-side style.\}\par
\\label\{facing-caption\}\par
\\end\{figure\}\par
 \par
\\begin\{figure\}[t]\par
\\footnotesize\par
\\begin\{verbatim\}\par
     \\begin\{figure\}[p]\par
        \\begin\{leftfullpage\}\par
           \\caption\{ . . . \}\par
        \\end\{leftfullpage\}\par
     \\end\{figure\}\par
     \\begin\{figure\}[p]% the right side space\par
       \\begin\{xtrafullpage\}\par
          . . .\par
          ( note.. no caption here )\par
       \\end\{xtrafullpage\}\par
     \\end\{figure\}\par
\\end\{verbatim\}\par
\\caption(b)[Generating a facing caption page]\{This text would create a\par
  facing caption page with the accompaning figure in the one-side style.\}\par
\\end\{figure\}\par
 \par
If instead you are using the one-side style,\par
facing caption pages are still\par
captions for full page figures or tables\par
that appear on the left-hand page (facing the illustration on the\par
right-hand page).  \par
However, the page number and binding offset are reversed\par
from their normal positions.\par
Format these captions by enclosing the float contents\par
in a \\texttt\{leftfullpage\} environment.\par
Because you are printing on only one side of each sheet, you must manually\par
turn over this caption sheet. \par
You then have the choice of inserting a preprinted illustration or\par
formatting one to print with the thesis. \par
In either case no page number should appear\par
on the illustration page, nor should the page number increment. \par
Enclose your figure's text\par
in an \\texttt\{xtrafullpage\} environment, which will cause the\par
page numbers to come out right.  \par
You can, of course, leave out the illustration and insert a preprinted\par
copy later. \par
Figure~\\ref\{facing-caption\}b shows how to format a facing caption page\par
in the one-side style. Note that, in this case, the illustration\par
was also printed.\par
\par
In the two-side style the \\texttt\{xtrafullpage\} environment acts just like the\par
\\texttt\{fullpage\} environment.  It does not produce a numberless page.\par
\par
\par
 \par
\\subsection\{Horizontal Figures and Tables\}\par
Figures and tables may be formatted horizontally\par
(a.k.a.\\ landscape) as long as their captions appear\par
horizontal also.  \\LaTeX\\ will format landscape material for you\par
if a couple of conditions are met.  You have to have a printer\par
and printer driver that allow rotations and\par
you have to have a couple of add-on \\LaTeX\\ packages.  \par
\par
% Users of PostScript printers and Uniform Access computers \par
% at the University of Washington will conform to both requirements,\par
% as will users of PC\\TeX\\ if they use postscript.\par
\par
Include the \\texttt\{rotating\} package \par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\usepackage[figuresright]\\\\\{rotating\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\usepackage[figuresright]\\\{rotating\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
and read the documentation that comes with the package. \par
\par
Figure~\\ref\{sideways\} is an example of how a landscape\par
table might be formatted. \par
\par
\\begin\{figure\}[t]\par
\\footnotesize\par
\\begin\{verbatim\}\par
     \\begin\{sidewaystable\}\par
         ...\par
         \\caption\{ . . . \}\par
     \\end\{sidewaystable\}\par
\\end\{verbatim\}\par
\\caption[Generating a landscape table]\{This text would create a\par
  landscape table with caption.\}\par
\\label\{sideways\}\par
\\end\{figure\}\par
 \par
\par
\par
\\subsection\{Figure and Table Captions\}\par
Most captions are formatted with the \\verb"\\caption" macro as described \par
by Lamport\\cite[sec. C.9]\{Lbook\}. \par
The uwthesis class extends this macro to allow\par
continued figures and tables, and to provide multiple figures and\par
tables with the same number, e.g., 3.1a, 3.1b, etc.\par
 \par
To format the caption for the first part of\par
a figure or table that cannot fit\par
onto a single page use the standard form:\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\caption[\\\\textit\{toc\}]\\\\\{\\\\textit\{text\}\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\caption[\\textit\{toc\}]\\\{\\textit\{text\}\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
To format the caption for the subsequent parts of \par
the figure or table \par
use this caption:\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\caption(-)\\\\\{(continued)\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\caption(-)\\\{(continued)\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
It will keep the same number and the text of the caption will be \par
\{\\em(continued)\}.\par
\par
To format the caption for the first part of\par
a multi-part figure or table\par
use the format:\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\caption(a)[\\\\textit\{toc\}]\\\\\{\\\\textit\{text\}\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\caption(a)[\\textit\{toc\}]\\\{\\textit\{text\}\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
The figure or table will be lettered (with `a') as well as numbered.\par
To format the caption for the subsequent parts of \par
the multi-part figure or table\par
use the format:\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\caption(\\\\textit\{x\})\\\\\{\\\\textit\{text\}\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\caption(\\textit\{x\})\\\{\\textit\{text\}\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
where \{\\em x\} is \{\\tt b\}, \{\\tt c\}, \\ldots.\par
The parts will be lettered (with `b', `c', \\ldots).\par
\par
\\section\{The Preliminary Pages\}\par
 \par
These are easy to format only because they are relatively invariant\par
among theses.  Therefore the difficulties have already been encountered\par
and overcome by \\LaTeX\\ and the thesis document classes.\par
\par
Start with the definitions that describe your thesis.\par
This sample thesis was printed with the parameters:\par
\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Title\\\\\{The"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Title\\\{The\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  Suitability of the {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\LaTeX\\\\\\\\"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\LaTeX\\\\\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  Text Formatter\\\\\\\\\par
   for Thesis Preparation by Technical and\\\\\\\\\par
   Non-technical Degree Candidates\\\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Author\\\\\{Jim"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Author\\\{Jim\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  Fox\\\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Program\\\\\{UW"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Program\\\{UW\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  Information Technology\\\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Year\\\\\{2012\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Year\\\{2012\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Chair\\\\\{Name"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Chair\\\{Name\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  of Chairperson\\\}\\\{title\\\}\\\{Chair's department\\\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Signature\\\\\{First"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Signature\\\{First\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  committee member\\\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Signature\\\\\{Next"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Signature\\\{Next\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  committee member\\\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Signature\\\\\{etc\\\\\}"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Signature\\\{etc\\\}\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
 \par
Use two or more \\verb"\\Chair" lines if you have co-chairs.\par
 \par
\\subsection\{Copyright page\}\par
Print the copyright page with \\verb"\\copyrightpage".\par
\par
\\subsection\{Title page\}\par
Print the title page with \\verb"\\titlepage".\par
The title page of this thesis was printed with%\par
\\footnote\{Actually, it wasn't.  I added a footnote---something you would not do.\}\par
 \par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\titlepage"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\titlepage\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
 \par
You may change default text on the title page with these\par
macros.  You will have to redefine \\verb"\\Degreetext", for instance,\par
if you're writing a Master's thesis instead of a dissertation.\\footnote\{If you use these they can\par
be included with the other information before {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\copyrightpage"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\copyrightpage\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 ".\}\par
\par
\\begin\{list\}\{\}\{\\itemindent\\parindent\\itemsep0pt\par
   \\def\\makelabel#1\{\\texttt\{\\char`\\\\#1\}\\hfill\}\}\par
\\item[Degree\\char`\\\{\{\\it degree name\}\\char`\\\}]\par
   defaults to ``Doctor of Philosophy''\par
\\item[School\\char`\\\{\{\\it school name\}\\char`\\\}] defaults to\par
``University of Washington''\par
\\item[Degreetext\\char`\\\{\{\\it degree text\}\\char`\\\}] defaults to\par
``A dissertation submitted \\ldots''\par
\\item[textofCommittee\\char`\\\{\{\\it committee label\}\\char`\\\}] defaults to\par
``Reading Committee:''\par
\\item[textofChair\\char`\\\{\{\\it chair label\}\\char`\\\}] defaults to\par
``Chair of the Supervisory Committee:''\par
\\end\{list\}\par
\par
These definitions must appear \\underline\{before\} the \\verb"\\titlepage" command.\par
\par
 \par
\\subsection\{Abstract\}\par
Print the\par
abstract with \\verb"\\abstract".\par
It has one argument, which is the text of the abstract.\par
All the names have already been defined.\par
The abstract of this thesis was printed with\par
 \par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\abstract\\\\\{This"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\abstract\\\{This\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  sample . . . `real' dissertation.\\\}\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
 \par
 \par
\\subsection\{Tables of contents\}\par
Use the standard \\LaTeX\\ commands to format these items.\par
 \par
 \par
\\subsection\{Acknowledgments\}\par
Use the \\verb"\\acknowledgments" macro to format the acknowledgments page.\par
It has one argument, which is the text of the acknowledgment.\par
The acknowledgments of this thesis was printed with\par
 \par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\acknowledgments\\\\\{The"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\acknowledgments\\\{The\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  author wishes . . . \\\{\\\\it il miglior fabbro\\\}.\\\\par\\\}\\\}\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
 \par
 \par
\\subsection\{Dedication\}\par
Use the \\verb"\\dedication" macro to format the dedication page.\par
It has one argument, which is the text of the dedication.\par
 \par
\\subsection\{Vita\}\par
Use the \\verb"\\vita" macro to format the curriculum vitae.\par
It has one argument, which chronicles your life's accomplishments.\par
\par
Note that the Vita is not really a preliminary page.\par
It appears at the end of your thesis, just after the appendices.\par
 \par
 \par
%%  \par
%% \\section\{Customization of the Macros\}\par
%%  \par
%% Simple customization, including \par
%% alteration of default parameters,  changes to dimensions,\par
%% paragraph indentation, and margins, are not too difficult.\par
%% You have the choice of modifying the class file (\{\\tt uwthesis.cls\})\par
%% or loading\par
%% one or more personal style files to customize your thesis.\par
%% The latter is usually most convenient, since you do not need\par
%% to edit the large and complicated class file.\par
%% \par
 \par
\par
\par
% ========== Chapter 4\par
 \par
\\chapter\{Running \\LaTeX\\\\\par
  (\{\\it and printing if you must\})\}\par
 \par
 \par
\\TeX\\ has been designed to produce exactly the same document\par
on all computers and on all printers.  \{\\it Exactly the same\}\par
means that the various spacings, line and page breaks, and\par
even hyphenations will occur at the same places\par
when the document is formatted on a variety of computers.\par
However, the way you edit text files and run \\LaTeX\\ varies\par
from system to system.\par
 \par
\\section\{Running\}\par
\par
Unfortunately, the author is woefully out of water where \par
\\TeX\\ on Windows is concerned.  Google would be his resource.\par
On a UNIX system he types\par
\par
\\begin\{demo\}\par
\\$\\ pdflatex uwthesis\par
\\end\{demo\}\par
\par
and it generally works.\par
\par
 \par
\\section\{Printing\}\par
 \par
All implementations of \\TeX\\ provide the option of \{\\bf pdf\} output,\par
which is all the Graduate School now requires.  Even if you intend to\par
print a copy or two of your thesis---the best way to admire it---create a \par
\{\\tt pdf\} anyway.  It will print anywhere.\par
\par
\\printendnotes\par
\par
%\par
% ==========   Bibliography\par
%\par
\\nocite\{*\}   % include everything in the uwthesis.bib file\par
\\bibliographystyle\{plain\}\par
\\bibliography\{uwthesis\}\par
%\par
% ==========   Appendices\par
%\par
\\appendix\par
\\raggedbottom\\sloppy\par
 \par
% ========== Appendix A\par
 \par
\\chapter\{Where to find the files\}\par
 \par
The uwthesis class file, \{\\tt uwthesis.cls\}, contains the parameter settings,\par
macro definitions, and other \\TeX nical commands which\par
allow \\LaTeX\\ to format a thesis.  \par
The source to\par
the document you are reading, \{\\tt uwthesis.tex\},\par
contains many formatting examples\par
which you may find useful.\par
The bibliography database, \{\\tt uwthesis.bib\}, contains instructions\par
to BibTeX to create and format the bibliography.\par
You can find the latest of these files on:\par
\par
\\begin\{itemize\}\par
\\item My page.\par
\\begin\{description\}\par
\\item[] \\verb%http://staff.washington.edu/fox/tex/uwthesis.html%\par
\\end\{description\}\par
\par
\\item CTAN\par
\\begin\{description\}\par
\\item[]  \\verb%http://tug.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/uwthesis/%\par
\\item[]  (not always as up-to-date as my site)\par
\\end\{description\}\par
\par
\\end\{itemize\}\par
\par
\\vita\{Jim Fox is a Software Engineer with UW Information Technology at the University of Washington.\par
His duties do not include maintaining this package.  That is rather\par
an avocation which he enjoys as time and circumstance allow.\par
\par
He welcomes your comments to \{\\tt fox@uw.edu\}.\par
\}\par
\par
\par
\\end\{document\}\par
}
 